Map Your Current Career Path
If you want a job making money and doing good you have to embrace the notion that you won’t get there in a straight line. Careers today no longer follow linear trajectories that take you from graduation, to internship to employment up the ranks. This exercise is the first of 50 to help you discover your unique path and give you the confidence to get your dream job. By mapping your career path you will see that you are already well on your way.

Make a list of 25 different milestones, relationships, people, jobs, or experiences that brought you to where you are today.

Create a map with your milestones. Connect them chronologically, making note of the impact they had on your state of mind at the time. Draw your map on a white board, a large piece of paper or your computer.

Pick two random points and try to add in five more milestones, people, or experiences that got you from one step to the next.

Choose a different pen color and note your emotions throughout the map. How did you feel before and after you got your last job? When did you last feel overwhelmed or totally satisfied?

Review your map. Take note of patterns, industries, themes, and clues that could inform your next step.

Ask yourself: What do I want to repeat? Do differently? Learn from this?  What industries or jobs emerge that may have been hiding in your peripheral vision?

Want to keep thinking about your path? No patterns or potential future directions emerging? Build on this exercise and 

Przygotuj mapę swojej ścieżki kariery

Jeśli chcesz dotrzeć do punktu, w którym masz dobrą pracę i sam masz się dobrze, to przyzwyczaj się do świadomości, że nie dotrzesz tam po prostej linii. Dzisiejsze kariery nie rozwijają się liniowo, od dyplomu, przez staże i praktyki, do zatrudnienia i stanowisk kierowniczych. Poniższe ćwiczenie jest pierwszym s pięćdziesięciu, które pomogą ci odkryć twoją wyjątkową ścieżkę kariery. Przygotowanie mapy pozwoli ci dostrzec, że już dawno wyruszyłeś w drogę.

Przygotuj listę 25 kamieni milowych. Ludzi, stanowisk, znajomości, związków, doświadczeń, które pomogły ci dotrzeć do punktu, w którym jesteś teraz. Połącz je chronologicznie, odnotowując wpływ, jaki miały na twój obecny stan świadomości. Narysuj mapę na tablicy, dużym arkuszu papieru lub w komputerze.

Wybierz inny kolor długopisu i zanotuj emocje, jakie towarzyszyły ci w poszczególnych punktach mapy. Jak czułeś się przed i po tym, jak opuściłeś swoje ostatnie stanowisko? Kiedy odczuwałeś satysfakcję w pracy, a kiedy przytłoczenie obowiązkami?

Przejrzyj swoją mapę. Zauważ powtarzające się wzorce, wskazówki, które mogą doradzić ci w podjęciu kolejnego kroku.

Zapytaj siębie: co chciałbym powtórzyć? Co dziś zrobiłbym inaczej? Czego się nauczyłem? Na jakie branże i stanowiska powinienem teraz zwrócić uwagę?


Ok, prawdopodobnie wiesz, że nie powinieneś publikować niektórych zdjęć z sobotniej imprezy, jakkolwiek imponująco nie wyglądałaby ta beczka piwa na stole w salonie. Wiesz też, że wiernie oddane kontury i kolory tego ostatniego pawia niekoniecznie będą dobrze się prezentowały na twoim wallu. Ale to, że udaje ci się unikać oczywistości nie znaczy jeszcze, że nie szkodzisz swojej karierze aktywnością na Facebooku. Oto siedem innym kluczowych pułapek, wraz z proponowanymi rozwiązaniami.

1) Krytyczne statusy, o pracy, w czasie pracy

Cokolwiek publikowałbyś na Facebooku w czasie pracy, oznacza jedno: nie pracujesz. (tak, twój szef doskonale wie, co robisz, gapiąc się w smartfona tak sprytnie ukrytego na kolanach pod biurkiem). Jeśli zaś masz w znajomych szefa i współpracowników, to absolutnie kluczowe jest unikania narzekania na nich i na twoją pracę. Obecny szef nie będzie zachwycony, ale i rekrutujący dla potencjalnego przyszłego szefa nie będą - woleliby nie zostać potraktowani tak samo w przyszłości. Pisz pozytywnie, unikaj dyskusji o polityce firmowej, i przede wszystkim - nigdy w czasie pracy!

2) Używanie tego samego adresu e-mail na Facebooku i do aplikowania o pracę

Wiele firm korzysta z pluginu do programu pocztowego, który automatycznie pobiera wszystkie dane z mediów społecznościowych skojarzone z danym adresem. Cała twoja publiczna aktywność trafi wtedy automatycznie do managera, który otrzymał twoją aplikację. Jeśli chcesz tego uniknąć, zmień adres e-mail!

3) Lubienie wszystkiego

Dobrze mieć pozytywne nastawienie i wspierać innych, ale lajkowanie wszystkiego sprawia wrażenie, że masz trochę za dużo wolnego czasu. Nawet, jeśli robisz to w czasie pracy, wciąż sugerujesz, że masz niewiele życia poza pracą. A mógłbyś przecież przeznaczyć ten czas na podróże, dodatkowe nadgodziny czy poszerzanie kwalifikacji... Pomyśl, zanim polubisz.

3) Pozostawienie otwartych ustawień prywatności



By: Dimitris Kalogeropoylos
While it’s good to be supportive, liking everything you see on Facebook makes it seem like you’ve got a little too much time on your hands. Again, this is problematic when you’re friends with co-workers or your boss, as it might make you appear off-task on the job. However, even if you’re doing all of that liking on your personal time, it can still communicate the wrong message about you. Your boss, for instance, might think that means you have plenty of free time for working late hours, since you would only going home to get on Facebook anyways. It also might seem to them like you’re not doing enough to enrich your life outside of work, whether that’s embarking on a travel adventure or taking a continuing education course directly related to your career. Overall, it’s a good idea to think before you like.

4) Not locking down on your privacy settings:

Of course, locking down your privacy settings is essential, both in terms of keeping your current job and when it comes to finding a new one. Unfortunately, last year’s switch to graph search means that you can no longer make your profile totally hidden. However, you can still go to the About section of your profile and manually set guidelines for who you want to see what. Additionally, it’s a good idea to create a list for your co-workers so you can exclude them from any posts you think might prove too controversial. You can also change the settings so that co-workers can’t see anything you’re tagged in.

5) Choosing an awful profile pic:

Again, you’re probably savvy enough to discern why that photo of you getting wild on spring break of junior year isn’t a great snapshot to choose as your profile pic. But apparently, even an appropriate but poor quality — grainy, out of focus, dark, etc. — pic can inhibit your chances of landing a good job. While you needn’t go for a boring LinkedIn style photo, when you’re actively looking for a job, it’s best to stick with a high resolution photo shot from the chest up. Doing so will not only make you look professional but will also help you appear trustworthy.

6) Posting about controversial issues:

As passionate as you may be about abortion and gun control, posting about polarizing issues like this is the quickest way to alienate employers who disagree with you — all the more so if you engage in angry debate. Yes, it’s clearly illegal to discriminate against you based on these views, but employers are bound to have at least subconscious (if not openly conscious) biases, and you wouldn’t want that to affect your hiring.

The one exception to this rule is when the controversial matter at hand has to do with your industry. In that case, posting an articulate and well-researched opinion can actually help you build expertise. That said, phrasing should still be respectful, both in the post itself and in the comments that follow.

7) Concentrating all of your social media efforts on Facebook:

If all of your news goes straight to Facebook, it’s time to consider branching out. When used the right way, social media can be an even more powerful networking tool than, well, networking. Joining interest groups on LinkedIn and following people strategically on Twitter are both great ways to meet movers and shakers in your industry and show people what you know and do through commenting. Social media is also a great place to share your expert content, and further establish your reputation. The more sites you’re active on, the more findable you’ll be via keywords that are crucial to your industry. Just remember to treat each platform as a unique entity, providing relevant content accordingly.

The takeaway:

When you’re not careful, Facebook can easily derail your career. But it can also make your career, too — just as long as you operate strategically on the platform. So tighten up those security settings, put on your positive attitude and make the most of the tools available to you.

But seriously, take down those Cancun photos before you get fired.

Author: Beverley Reinemann is a freelance writer and blogger who spent three years travelling and working in Australia and New Zealand. Now back in London she splits her time between travelling, running her blog; Pack Your Passport, and her job in online marketing at Distilled.






